 the patient is a 76-year-old male who had been hospitalized at the from through of after undergoing a left femoral-at bypass graft and was subsequently discharged to a rehabilitation facility. on , he presented again to the after being found to have a systolic blood pressure in the 70s and no urine output for 17 hours. a foley catheter placed at the rehabilitation facility yielded 100 cc of murky/brown urine. there may also have been purulent discharge at the penile meatus at this time. on presentation to the emergency department, the patient was without subjective complaints. in the emergency department, he was found to have systolic blood pressure of 85. he was given 6 liters of intravenous fluids and transiently started on dopamine for a systolic blood pressure in the 80.s past medical history: 1. coronary artery disease with diffuse 3-vessel disease; right-dominant, status post proximal left circumflex stent in with occlusion of the distal left circumflex; status post right coronary artery stent on (no percutaneous coronary intervention to 99% diagonal left circumflex, 80% small proximal left anterior descending artery, or 80% small distal left anterior descending artery). 2. congestive heart failure (with an ejection fraction of 15% to 20%). 3. type 2 diabetes with neuropathy. 4. hypertension. 5. diverticulosis (found on colonoscopy in ). 6. alzheimer's dementia. 7. history of gastrointestinal bleed (while the patient was taking eptifibatide). 8. cardiac risk factors (with a baseline creatinine of 1.4 to 1.6). 9. hypercholesterolemia. 10. history of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus and pseudomonas growth in wound cultures. 11. severe peripheral vascular disease; status post left femoral-at bypass graft on . 12. chronic nonhealing foot ulcers. 13. recent right pedal cellulitis. allergies: the patient has no known drug allergies. medications on admission: 1. vancomycin 1 g intravenously q.24h. for a level of less than 15 (started on ). 2. levofloxacin 250 mg p.o. q.d. (started on ). 3. metronidazole 500 mg p.o. q.8h. (started on ). 4. heparin 5000 units subcutaneous b.i.d. 5. simvastatin 40 mg p.o. q.d. 6. lisinopril 5 mg p.o. q.d. 7. furosemide 40 mg p.o. q.d. 8. vitamin e 400 iu p.o. q.d. 9. atenolol 25 mg p.o. q.d. 10. pantoprazole 40 mg p.o. q.d. 11. ascorbic acid 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. 12. nph 17 units b.i.d. 13. regular insulin sliding-scale. 14. bisacodyl 10 mg p.o./p.r. as needed. 15. docusate 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. 16. percocet 5/325 mg one tablet p.o. q.4-6h. as needed for pain. 17. aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d. 18. metoprolol 75 mg p.o. b.i.d. social history: the patient is retired and had been living at home with his wife prior to his admission to the hospital on ; he had been living at for the day prior to admission. he is a social drinker and has a 40-pack-year smoking history; although, he quit smoking 20 years ago. physical examination on presentation: initial physical examination revealed temperature was 96.1 degrees fahrenheit, heart rate was 83, blood pressure was 124/42 (following administration of 3 liters of normal saline), respiratory was 24, and his oxygen saturation was 100% on 2 liters nasal cannula. his heart had a regular rate and rhythm. there were normal first and second heart sounds. there was a 2/6 systolic ejection murmur, and there were no rubs or gallops. his lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. his abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended, and there were hypoactive bowel sounds. he had a palpable bypass graft pulse, dorsalis pedis and posterior tibialis pulses bilaterally; and his surgical incision was clean, dry, and intact. please note that the above examination was done by the vascular surgery team, which was the team that was initially planning to admit the patient to the hospital. pertinent laboratory data on presentation: on initial laboratory evaluation the patient had a white blood cell count of 12.7, hematocrit was 30.2, and platelets were 282,000. his pt was 13.5, ptt was 30.7, and inr was 1.3. his serum chemistries revealed sodium was 136, potassium was 5.4, chloride was 99, bicarbonate was 25, blood urea nitrogen was 53, creatinine was 3.2, and blood glucose was 91. his calcium was 8.2, magnesium was 2.4, and phosphate was 4.8. blood cultures drawn on admission were pending, but ultimately negative. a urine culture taken on admission was initially pending, but ultimately grew out yeast. a sputum culture taken on admission was also initially pending, but ultimately also grew out yeast. radiology/imaging: his admission chest x-ray demonstrated stable prominence of the right main pulmonary artery; no focal areas of consolidation; overall stable appearance of the chest compared with a study. no radiographic evidence of congestive heart failure or pneumonia. his admission electrocardiogram demonstrated a sinus rhythm, nonspecific inferior/lateral t wave changes, low qrs voltages in the limb leads, and t wave changes in v5 and v6 when compared with an electrocardiogram dated . an initial abdominal ct was a limited noncontrast examination that demonstrated diffuse vascular calcifications. no evidence of an abdominal aortic aneurysm or free fluid, incompletely imaged coronary artery calcification, a simple left renal cyst, sigmoid diverticulosis, and an enlarged and partially calcified prostate gland. hospital course by system: 1. cardiovascular: the patient was initially admitted to the vascular intensive care unit with hypotension, decreased urine output, and acute renal failure; most likely secondary to a presumed gram-negative urosepsis (although there were never any positive culture data to confirm this diagnosis). while boarding in the medical intensive care unit on the night of admission, the patient had a sudden cardiorespiratory arrest. he was resuscitated with epinephrine, lidocaine, and direct current cardioversion times four. he was also intubate for airway protection. following these measures, the patient returned to a sinus rhythm with a systolic blood pressure of approximately 100; the total time elapsed from the beginning of the arrest to the return of a pulse was approximately 16 minutes. he subsequently required double pressors to maintain his blood pressure. an echocardiogram performed at the bedside demonstrated a trivial pericardial effusion and a left ventricular ejection fraction of 20% to 25% in the setting of tachycardia and a hyperdynamic right ventricle; suggesting elevated right-sided filling pressures. although the definitive etiology of this arrest remained unknown, the most likely trigger was a non-q-wave myocardial infarction, as his troponin values were elevated to greater than 50 following his arrest. a repeat echocardiogram done on demonstrated mild left atrial dilation, an ejection fraction of 15% to 20%, resting regional wall motion abnormalities including inferior, mid, and apical left ventricular akinesis, depressed right ventricular systolic function, and moderate mitral regurgitation. compared with the prior study of ; the left ventricular function was unchanged. there was moderate mitral regurgitation, and the right ventricular function appeared worse. on , the patient was loaded with amiodarone and was subsequently started on oral amiodarone. the following day, he was started on heparin intravenously given his elevated serum troponin to greater than 50; this medication was continued for 72 hours. given his elevated troponins and non-q-wave myocardial infarction, the patient was a candidate for cardiac catheterization. after discussions between the medical intensive care unit team and the patient's family, however, the decision was made to not pursue further invasive procedures given that the patient had been made do not resuscitate/do not intubate following the resuscitation mentioned above, and his family no longer wished for aggressive resuscitating measures. by , he was off pressors and he was restarted on a beta blocker and ace inhibitor at low doses. on the evening of , the patient complained of substernal chest pain that was relieved by npg sl and morphine. he also had st segment depressions in v2 and v3 that reverted to baseline after the resolution of his pain. therefore, the patient was again started on heparin; although, this was discontinued on when the patient ruled out for a myocardial infarction by cardiac enzymes. he again had substernal chest pain on ; although, he had no electrocardiogram changes, and he again ruled out for a myocardial infarction by cardiac enzymes. by hospital day four, the patient began to develop evidence of congestive heart failure given his aggressive fluid resuscitation, and gentle diuresis with furosemide was begun. by the time of his transfer to the general medicine service on , the patient was still significantly volume overloaded following his aggressive fluid resuscitation in the medical intensive care unit. therefore, he was continued on the program of gentle diuresis given that he was having signs and symptoms of right-sided congestive heart failure. he achieved adequate diuresis by the time of his discharge to rehabilitation, as his oxygen saturation was greater than 95% on 2 liters nasal cannula. 2. infectious disease/sepsis: the patient was started on gentamicin and piperacillin/tazobactam in addition to the levofloxacin, metronidazole, and vancomycin he was already taking for right lower extremity cellulitis prior to admission for empiric coverage of a presumed gram-negative urosepsis, and he was aggressively hydrated with intravenous fluids. on , his levofloxacin and metronidazole was discontinued, and he was started on fluconazole given the growth of yeast on urine culture. he was taken off of gentamicin on hospital day three, and his fluconazole was discontinued on hospital day five (as per the infectious disease service). he was taken off of vancomycin on , and his piperacillin/tazobactam was discontinued on . despite the presumption of a gram-negative urosepsis precipitating this admission, the patient did not have any positive blood or urine cultures aside from the growth of yeast in two urine cultures noted above. he remained afebrile both before and after discontinuation of his antibiotics, and he was found to be clostridium difficile negative on . 3. pulmonary: as noted above, the patient was intubated and he was extubated on . he subsequently developed wheezing and mild hypoxia; most likely secondary to cardiac asthma and fluid overload in the setting of his aggressive fluid resuscitation. he was gently diuresed toward the end of his hospitalization, and by the time of his he was maintaining an oxygen saturation of greater than 95% on 2 liters nasal cannula, intermittent ipratropium nebulizers, and chest physical therapy for clearance of his respiratory secretions. 4. renal: the patient presented with acute renal failure and prerenal azotemia that rapidly resolved following fluid resuscitation. by the time of discharge, his serum creatinine was stable and at his preadmission baseline. 5. nutrition: the patient was found to be profoundly malnourished with a serum albumin of 1.8 on admission. once he was extubated and taking orals, he performed poorly on a modified barium swallowing study and was started on a thin liquid, ground-solid diet with whole medication tablets, small bites and sips, upright posture with meals, and aspiration precautions. he was also given promod shakes with and between meals for nutritional supplementation of his heart-healthy/diabetic diet. 6. vascular: the patient's operative incisions and foot ulcers continued to heal throughout this admission. he was started on an multivitamin, vitamin c, and zinc for improved wound healing. 7. hematology: the patient was transfused one unit of packed red blood cells on to maintain a hematocrit of greater than 30 given his history of severe coronary artery disease. his hematocrit subsequently remained stable. condition at discharge: condition on discharge was stable. discharge status: rehabilitation facility. discharge diagnoses: 1. cardiorespiratory arrest. 2. non-q-wave myocardial infarction. 3. acute renal failure. 4. coronary artery disease with diffuse 3-vessel disease; right-dominant, status post proximal left circumflex stent in with occlusion of distal left circumflex; status post right coronary artery stent on (no percutaneous coronary intervention to 99%, distal left circumflex, 80% small proximal left anterior descending artery, 80% small distal left anterior descending artery). 5. congestive heart failure (with an ejection fraction of 15% to 20%). 6. type 2 diabetes with neuropathy. 7. hypertension. 8. diverticulosis (found on colonoscopy in ). 9. alzheimer's dementia. 10. history of gastrointestinal bleed (while the patient was taking eptifibatide). 11. cardiac risk factors (with a baseline creatinine of 1.4 to 1.6). 12. history of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus and pseudomonas growth in wound cultures. 13. severe peripheral vascular disease; status post left femoral-at bypass graft on . 14. chronic nonhealing foot ulcers. medications on discharge: 1. amiodarone 400 mg p.o. b.i.d. (through ), then 400 mg p.o. q.d. (times one week), then 200 mg p.o. q.d. 2. metoprolol 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. 3. captopril 6.25 mg p.o. t.i.d. 4. aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. 5. pantoprazole 40 mg p.o. q.d. 6. heparin 5000 units subcutaneously b.i.d. 7. multivitamin one tablet p.o. q.d. 8. zinc sulfate 220 mg p.o. q.d. 9. vitamin c 500 mg p.o. q.d. 10. ipratropium nebulizers q.4-6h. as needed (for wheezing). 11. acetaminophen 325 mg to 650 mg p.o. q.4-6h. as needed (for pain). 12. miconazole 2% powder to groin b.i.d. 13. santyl lotion to heels b.i.d. 14. regular insulin sliding-scale. code status: do not resuscitate/do not intubate. note: if applicable, an addendum to this discharge summary will be dictated to include follow-up appointments as well as any changes to the medication list noted above. , m.d. dictated by: medquist36 Procedure: Venous catheterization, not elsewhere classified Continuous invasive mechanical ventilation for 96 consecutive hours or more Insertion of endotracheal tube Enteral infusion of concentrated nutritional substances Other electric countershock of heart Pulmonary artery wedge monitoring Diagnoses: Other primary cardiomyopathies Subendocardial infarction, initial episode of care Congestive heart failure, unspecified Acute kidney failure, unspecified Unspecified septicemia Unspecified protein-calorie malnutrition Cardiac arrest Other shock without mention of trauma Cellulitis and abscess of leg, except foot
